A "blank endorsement" means that the  
Payer does not write anything on the back of a check.
*Payer signs only his/her name when endorsing the check.
Writer of the check did not specify the person to whom the check was written.
Check was not signed by the payer.

Another name for a "full service bank" is a    
Savings and loan.
Thrift institution.
Complete bank.
*Commercial bank.

A "bear market" is said to occur when   
The Federal Reserve cuts interest rates more than one percent.
*Stock prices decline by a significant percentage.
Stock prices increase by a significant percentage.
General price levels for goods and services decrease for two consecutive calendar quarters.

The date at which the principal of a bond will be repaid by the borrower is the  
*Maturity date.
Expiration date.
Face value time.
Yield status date.

A numismatist is one who   
Studies Federal Reserve Bank policy.
*Collects coins.
Is concerned with the history of money.
Reports on business and economics in the print media.

The purpose of disability income insurance is to   
Enable those injured on the job to pay for hospitalization and rehabilitation services so they can return to work.
*Replace lost wages for those who are injured or ill and who temporarily or permanently do not receive income from working.
Provide supplemental income to those who are retired.
Allow the employer to offer employees an alternative to workmen's compensation insurance.

The Progressive.com web site allows the user to    
Trade stocks and bonds.
Compare interest rates on loans.
Review information about homes available for sale and the amounts that their current owners still owe on those homes.
*Receive quotes on automobile insurance from several different companies.  

Accounts in most banks are insured up to $100,000 by the   
National Savings Association.
United States Department of Banking.
*Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Savings Insurance Company.

Which of the following would most affect the interest rate paid by the borrower?
The borrower's age
Total funds on reserve in the bank
*The borrower's income
Where the borrower lives

A  person with a regular checking account might accurately say,
"I get a higher rate of interest than the bank pays on savings accounts."
"As long as I have checks left in my checkbook, I have money."
*"If I don't maintain a certain minimum balance, I won't get interest on my account."
"The bank limits the number of checks I can write in a month."

One would be likely to find all of the following in a safe deposit box except    
*Vehicle registration certificates.
Stock certificates.
A list of life insurance policies.
Documents showing title to cars or real estate. 

The type of borrower most likely to seek funds from a consumer finance company is one who  
*Does not qualify for loans at a bank or savings and loan.
Is a first-rate credit risk and wants to obtain money at lower rates. 
Needs very large amounts of money for such items as a home or luxury automobile.
Has a large income and little outstanding debt.

A borrower's ability to obtain credit is based on the "3 C's of Credit."  These are   
Collateral, checks, and collections.
*Character, capacity, and capital.
Capital, collateral, and credit worthiness.
Conditions, corrections, and customs.

The U. S. government agency responsible for overseeing trading of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds is the    
*Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities Investor Protection Commission.
Bureau of Stock and Bond Trading.
Federal Department of Corporations.

As a general rule, insurance agents   
Only sell one "line" of insurance, such as life or automobile.
Work for a salary but do not receive commissions for the policies they sell.
*Must pass a state licensing examination covering general insurance topics.
Are not allowed to sell automobile or other types of insurance to businesses unless they take a separate licensing examination.

A check that has not yet been returned to the bank for payment is known as a(n)   
Cancelled check.
Blank check.
Void check.
*Outstanding check.

"Cybermoney" is a form of payment that might be appropriate for   
*Purchases over the Internet.
Those with no cash or money in the bank.
People who will not make payments by any means other than checks.
Customers who want to receive currency and coin in change when they buy something.

The unit of currency in Japan is the  
Rupee.
Sahaki.
*Yen.
Taki.

It would be unethical for a bank employee to   
Contact a loan applicant's creditors to determine whether or not the applicant makes payments on time.
*Reveal the balance of a depositor's checking account to friends of the depositor.
Make a sales call to a customer to see if that customer is interested in using other services offered by the bank.
Report cash deposits or withdrawals of at least $10,000 to the Internal Revenue Service.      

The NCUA charters and supervises  
*Federal credit unions.
State savings banks.
Mortgage lenders.
Brokers.

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act would not forbid a lender from denying credit to you if you  
Receive your income from public assistance (such as welfare or unemployment payments).
Are a woman.
Are single.
*Previously declared bankruptcy.

The type of credit used when a consumer purchases an item and pays the cost of that item plus interest over a fixed time period is   
Service credit.
*Installment credit.
Bank card credit.
Layaway credit.

Savers are most likely to be successful in building their savings if they   
Wait until they have paid all their monthly expenses and put whatever is left into a savings account.
Use their tax refunds as the source of deposits into their savings accounts.
*Set aside a certain percentage of their take-home pay each month and put this amount into the bank first.
Make frequent deposits to their savings account and withdraw money at least several times a month.

A dividend on common stock is an amount that  
Corporations are legally required to pay to shareholders each quarter.
*Represents a portion of corporate profits paid to stockholders.
Counts as an expense on a corporation's income statement, thus reducing its income tax liability.
Investors subtract from the amount paid for each share of stock to determine their annual "yield."

About 60 percent of the deposit and loan business in the United States is done by
Retail banks.
Central banks.
*Commercial banks.
Credit unions.

Which of the following is NOT a source of income for a bank?
*The interest earned by depositors
Investments
Loan income
Fees for services

The largest denomination of paper currency in the United States today is the
*One hundred dollar note.
Five hundred dollar note.
One thousand dollar note.
Ten thousand dollar note.

The second Bank of the United States
Was considered a great friend by state banks.
Bowed to political pressure and made no attempt to regulate credit and the money supply.
*Was thought by Andrew Jackson to represent the advancement of the few at the expense of the many.
Gained strength throughout the life of its first charter, eventually being granted a charter renewal in 1836.

To combat inflation in the 1970s and 1980s, the Federal Reserve
Loosened the money supply.
*Allowed interest rates to rise.
Allowed interest rates to fall.
Enacted wage and price controls.

The rate of interest the Federal Reserve charges banks for short-term loans is called the
*Discount rate.
Federal funds rate.
Reserve requirement rate.
Prime rate.

Which of the following assets is the most liquid?
The money in your savings account
100 shares of stock in a Fortune 500 company
*The money in your wallet
A certificate of deposit that comes due in six months

Which of the following elements of the money supply, as defined by the Federal Reserve, can be spent immediately?
*M1
M2
M3
MZM

The official currency of the United States can properly be classified as
Conventional money.
*Fiat money.
Commodity money.
Product money.

Money on deposit, minus ____, can be loaned by banks to customers.
Excess reserves
Cash on hand
Primary reserves
*The reserve requirement

If banks must hold more money in reserve,
The money supply will expand.
There is more money available to lend.
*There is less money available to lend.
Both a and b, but not c.

The interest rate the Federal Reserve charges for loans to member banks is called the
Prime rate.
*Discount rate.
Market rate.
Treasury rate.

The Federal Reserve influences the federal funds rate by
*Buying and selling government securities.
Adjusting the reserve requirement.
Lowering the discount rate.
All of the above.

To which category of the money supply do transaction accounts belong?
*M1
M2
M3
MZM

Which of the following is NOT a time deposit?
Savings account
*Checking account
Money market account
Certificate of deposit

Which of the following accounts are you LEAST likely to encounter at a modern bank?
Checking account
Certificate of deposit
Money market account
*Passbook savings account

Adding interest to the principal and paying interest on the new total is called paying
*Compound interest.
Simple interest.
Semi-annual interest.
Total interest.

Which of the following statements about reserve requirements is true?
Reserve requirements apply to the M1 and M2 money supply.
Reserve requirements are the most important factor in bank lending.
*Reserve requirements do not change very often.
Reserve requirements are the most important factor in bank lending.

A check that is dated six months or more before it is presented for payment or deposit is called a(n)
*Stale check.
Post-dated check.
Bounced check.
Overdraft check.

The person who signs a draft is the
Drawee.
*Drawer.
Payee.
Bearer.

Which of the following is an example of a restrictive endorsement?
*“For Deposit Only”
The signature of the holder
“Pay to the Order of Tevin Washington”
“Pay to the Order of Jill Davies, without recourse”

Which of the following largely eliminated the wide variation of legal regulation from the country’s payments system?
Federal Reserve Act of 1913
*Uniform Commercial Code of 1958
National Banking Act of 1864
Expedited Funds Availability Act of 1987

Which of the following is NOT a tip consumers should follow regarding the use of checks?
Endorse all checks in the presence of a bank teller.
Shred account statements and canceled checks rather than simply throwing them in the trash.
Don’t leave spaces on checks.
*Have your social security number printed on your checks to aid identification.

Documentation of most credit problems stays in a consumer’s file for at least
Six months.
One year.
Five years.
*Seven years.

A point is a value equal to ____ of a mortgage loan.
*1 percent
2 percent
5 percent
10 percent

A reverse mortgage is repaid
Over the term of the loan, typically 30 years.
In one single large payment at a specified point.
*When the borrower dies.
By the bank to the borrower.

The final step of the mortgage approval process is
Closing.
*Recording.
Drawing documents.
Underwriting.

Today the home ownership rate in the United States is about
40 percent.
55 percent.
*68 percent.
83 percent.

Which of the following type of business loan is often packaged with a real estate loan?
Equipment loan
*Construction loan
Operations loan
Automobile loan

Which of the following would a business probably NOT finance by a term loan?
Real estate
Equipment
*Increasing inventory
Business expansion

Most short-term business loans are for
Six months or less.
*One year or less.
Two years or less.
Five years or less.

A form of asset-based lending that advances cash to a business in exchange for its receivables is called
A line of credit.
Leasing.
A bridge loan.
*Factoring.

A high DSCR indicates that a company has
Barely any operating income available for debt service.
Taken on more debt than it has operating income.
*A good bit of operating income available for debt service.
A negative cash flow.

Foreign banking organizations hold about ____ of all U.S. commercial bank assets.
10 percent
*25 percent
50 percent
90 percent

The risk posed by variations in exchange rates between countries is called
*Currency risk.
Financial risk.
Country risk.
Exchange risk.

An instrument given by a bank on behalf of a buyer to pay back the bank of the seller a given sum in a given time is called a(n)
Promissory note.
Draft.
International IOU.
*Letter of credit.

The demand for a given currency will be strong if all of the following factors are present EXCEPT
Low inflation.
*Low interest rates.
A positive trade balance.
A strong economic forecast.

Which of the following is a provision of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act?
Banks are prohibited from owning brokerage firms.
Banks are not allowed to sell stock.
*Financial services companies are required to have and provide to customers a written privacy policy.
All of the above are provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

The person who creates a trust is called a
Corpus.
Donor.
*Beneficiary.
Maker.

Which of the following statements about banks is NOT true?
Banks distribute the medium of exchange.
*All banks are organized as corporations.
Banks may be chartered by either federal or state governments.
Banks are essential to maintaining the economy.

Which of the following is considered a liability for a bank?
Loans
Investments
*Deposits
None of the above; banks are prohibited by law from carrying liabilities

Which of the following is a non-depository intermediary?
Commercial bank
*Insurance company
Savings and loan association
Credit union

What was the most common medium of exchange in colonial America?
Paper money
*Coins
Checks
Pieces of gold and silver

The Civil War in America brought monetary issues to a crisis point because
State banks began to lose influence.
*Rampant inflation threatened the entire economic system.
The counterfeiting of money became widespread.
All of the above.

Which of the following is NOT a function of the Federal Reserve?
*Levying a high tax on state bank notes
Conducting bank examinations
Handling the government’s central banking function
Determining whether banks can borrow money from the Federal Reserve

The Emergency Banking Act of 1933
Founded the system of central banking still used in the United States.
Established a bank holiday that closed all banks in the country for one month.
Expanded the monetary controls of the Federal Reserve.
*Separated commercial banking from investment banking to protect assets.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) currently guarantees bank deposits against bank failures up to
$10,000.
$50,000.
*$100,000.
$1,000,000.

If there is too much money moving in the economy
Unemployment will probably rise.
*Prices may rise, causing inflation.
Prices will fall, causing widespread business failure.
Both a and b, but not c

Which of the following is NOT considered a factor in money creation?
The Federal Reserve’s supply and control of money
Banks’ use of money
The demand for money
*The printing of currency by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing

The most common form of a transaction account is a
Savings account.
*Checking account.
Money market account.
Certificate of deposit.

Which of the following features of a check indicates who is to receive the funds?
The bearer
The signature
*The payee
The memo

Which of the following is NOT an element of negotiability?
Must contain a signature
Must be written
*Must be payable on demand
Must state the amount to be paid

Which of the following endorsements is the least secure?
Qualified endorsement
Full endorsement
Restrictive endorsement
*Blank endorsement

All of the following are considered installment loans except
Automobile loans.
Home equity loans.
Education loans.
*Lines of credit.

A legal claim a lender has on property to secure a debt is called
*A lien.
Collateral.
An acceleration clause.
A garnishment.

Which of the following statements about open-end loans is true?
An automobile loan is probably the most common type of open-end loan.
*The longer you use the money, the more you pay.
The amount owed is fixed.
The term is fixed.

Which of the following elements of the FICO credit-scoring system carries the most weight?
Types of credit
*Payment history
Length of credit history
New credit

Which of the following attempts to protect the information that credit bureaus may collect?
Fair Debt Collection Act
*Fair Credit Reporting Act
Truth in Lending Act
Equal Credit Opportunity Act

Which of the following statements is NOT true?
*Credit bureaus may not report information more than one year old.
A creditor may not use receipt of public assistance as a factor in determining creditworthiness.
If there is a billing dispute, creditors may not take adverse action until the dispute is resolved.
Bill collectors may not call debtors at odd hours.

Which of the following components of a fixed rate mortgage do not change?
Payments on the loan
Interest rate
Terms
*All of the above

The rate to which a lender’s interest rate is tied is called the
Formula.
*Index.
Adjustment interval.
Periodic cap.

Generally speaking, housing costs should not exceed ____ of gross monthly income.
10 to 15 percent
*25 to 28 percent
36 to 40 percent
50 percent

It requires banks to record and report data on home lending in order to identify possible discriminatory patterns.
Equal Credit Opportunity Act
Community Reinvestment Act
*Home Mortgage Disclosure Act
Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act

Debt ÷ Income =
*Debt ratio.
Debt service coverage ratio.
LTV ratio.
Income ratio.

The Small Business Administration defines a small wholesale business as one with
10 or fewer employees.
50 or fewer employees.
*100 or fewer employees.
500 or fewer employees.

The type of business insurance that pays for medical care and physical rehabilitation of workers injured on the job is called
*Workers’ compensation.
Short-term disability.
Commercial liability.
Long-term disability.

Which of the following bank collection services allows accounts receivable payments to be sent directly to the bank?
Zero-balance accounts
Automated clearing house network
*Lockbox service
None of the above

The practice of buying debt at a discount is called
Discounting.
Investing.
Financing.
*Factoring.

What is Revenue?
*It is what is earned.
It is what is spent.
It is the total revenue minus the total expenses.
It is the same as the net profit. 

What are Expenses?
It is what is earned.
*It is what is spent.
It is the total revenue minus the total expenses.
It is the same as the net profit. 

What is Net Profit?
It is what is earned.
It is what is spent.
*It is the total revenue minus the total expenses.
It is the total revenue minus the total expenses divided by two.

What is Net Income?
It is what is earned.
It is what is spent.
*It is the total revenue minus the total expenses.
It is the total revenue minus the total expenses divided by two.

What is COGS?
*It is the cost of goods sold. 
It is the cost of goods sold minus total revenue.
It is the same as gross income.
It is the reduction of value over time. 
 
What is Gross Income?
It is the cost of goods sold. 
It is the cost of goods sold minus total revenue.
*It is the total revenue minus COGS.
It is the reduction of value over time. 

What is Gross Margin?
It is the cost of goods sold. 
It is the cost of goods sold minus total revenue.
*It is the total revenue minus COGS.
It is the reduction of value over time. 
 
What is Depreciation?
It is the cost of goods sold. 
It is the cost of goods sold minus total revenue.
It is the total revenue minus COGS.
*It is the decline of value over time. 

What is Appreciation?
*It is the increase of value over time. 
It is the decline of value over time.
It is the cost of goods sold minus total revenue.
It is the total revenue minus COGS.

What is EBITDA?
*It is  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.
It is the amount of debt- amount of assets which can be taken to clear it. 
It is the amount of money you owe for products and services already received.
It is the total revenue minus COGS.

APR Stands for what?
Average Percentage Rate
*Annual Percentage Rate
Average Prudential Rate
Average Postal Rate

Credit cards offer what which allows you to withdraw money instantly?
Savings account
Credit cash
Cash reward
*Cash advance

A what is the time limit to pay your credit card bill without incurring finance charge?
Time frame
Time line
*Grace period
extension

Amex Trading Floor is located in which country?
*New York
Sacramento
Chicago
Philadelphia 

NASDAQ Composite includes how many companies?
500
1500
*4000
10000

Standard And Poor's 500 (SP 500) does not include which companies?
Entertainment
Oil
*Foreign companies
Construction

Companies listed on the NYSE are give how many letter ticket symbols?
Four
Five
*One to three
Seven to nine

Most stocks are traded by which means?
On Wall Street
By phone
By mail
*On exchanges

Nikkei is the index of this nationalities’ stocks.
British
Italian
Norwegian
*Japenese

Companies traded on NASDAQ are given how many letter ticker symbols?
*Four
Three
Five
Two

Market capitalization is the total dollar value of what?
A company's assets
*A company's stocks
A company's annual sales
A company's bonds

Dow Jones Industrial Average (DOW) is composed of what?
*30 large stocks
500 large stocks
30 small stocks
100 small stocks

NYSE is located in which country?
Boston
*New York
Philadelphia 
Los Angeles

These are usually expected to produce significant gains.
Income stocks
Blue chips
Defensive stocks
*Growth stocks 

Stocks relatively independent from the business cycle are called what?
Income stocks
*Defensive stocks
Growth stocks
Blue chips

High Price/Earnings Ratio (P/E) often indicates that investors do what?
Don't worry about inflation
Are avoiding the company stock
Like the company's products
*Are iptimistic about the company

Stock beta measures what?
Company debt
*Stock volatility
Stock correlation with the CPI
Company earnings

Penny stocks are traded on what market?
NYSE
NASDAQ
AMEX
*OTC

Technical analysis is based on studying what?
Stock fundamentals
P/E
EPS trends
*Stock charts

Stocks that tend to periodically rise and fall are called what?
Defensive stocks
Blue chips
Income stocks
*Cyclical stocks

Stocks of established, high-quality companies are often called what?
*Blue chips
Cyclical stocks
Growth stocks
Income stocks 
 
Fundamental Analysis is based on studying what?
*The company's financial data
Company debt
Return on equity
Stock charts 

Stocks that pay relatively high dividends are called what?
*Income stocks
Defensive stocks
Blue chips
Cyclical stocks 

A what occurs when you don't make a full payment on your previous bill.
Discount
Reward points
*Finance charge 
Debit
 
What is the term used for the monthly report of all the accumulated charges.
*Billing statement
Savings accountant
Monthly tab
Balance 

The total amount that you have to pay on a certain billing is called what?
Minimum payment
Summary 
Monthly membership fee
*Outstanding balance

There is no expiration date for credit cards?
True
*False
Depends on the company
Depends on the accountant type
 
The maximum credit amount that can be used on your credit card is called what?
Loan
Boundary
Peak limit
*Credit limit

Late payment charges occur when you only pay the minimum payment.
True
*False
Depends on the company
Depends on the accountant type

An informal term for a credit card is what?
ID
*Plastic 
Play money
Discount card 

A what is the time given to pay your credit card bill without incurring finance charges?
Time frame
Time line
*Grace period
Extension

The least amount of money that you should pay on or before your due date is called what?
Total payment
*Minimum payment
Interest charge
Outstanding balance

You can earn a what when you continuously use your credit card for purchasing stuff. 
Punishment
Credit
Penalty
*Reward 

Credit cards offer what so you can withdraw money instantly. 
Credit cash
Savings account
Mortgage
*Cash advance

Lost OR Stolen Credit Cards should be reported immediately. 
*True
False 
Depends on the situation
No need to be urgent about it

How many types of credit cards are there?
1
5
2
*More Than 1

Dealer invoice is the amount a dealer is billed by the insurance company.
True
*False
Depends on the dealership
Depends on the payment type

APR is the same as interest rate.
Not always
True
*False
Depends on company

Dealer charges include manufacturer warranty. 
Not always
True
*False
Depends on company
